hi friends in this video that is discuss about file write operation.
Before we learn write operation
we need to know how to create a file
Then only we can write data to it
Or we can write data to an existing file also
So how can we creat a new file? We have already
learned how to open a file
We can use the fopen function and the syntax
to open a file in write mode is fopen(file name,w)
which is a write mode
If the specified file exists, we can write the data
to it
But if the specified file name does not exist,
it will create a new file
So let us create a file named "new"
Here new.txt will be created and buffer is
attached to that file and the buffer address 1024 will
be placed here and fopen will assign the file
structure address 5024 to file pointer fp.
If fopen is unable to create a file it
will return NULL.
So if fp not equal to NULL we can
understand that file creation was successful
Now let's write the data into the file character by
character. We can write a character into file using
the fputc function we have already learned about
fgetc which returns a character from a file. Here
fputc will write a character into the file
We have two arguments for the function fputc
which are the character to be written and the file pointer
So let's write hello into the file new.txt
Remember that the data will not be
written directly to the file but it will write the
data into the attached buffer
And when we close the file the whole content will
be returned into the file here
fputc will write 'H' into the buffer and
moves the current position of pointer. Next 'e' will
be returned. Then l, l, o will be returned in that order
The data is not written to the file yet
it only resides in the buffer
Now we close the file using the fclose function
Now it will write the buffer data into the file
and then removes the buffer from the memory.
If we use fclose in reading mode it will simply
remove the buffer
And if we use fclose in writing mode,
it will write the buffer data into the file and
then only it will remove the buffer from the memory
So we must close the file after the use
So that is how we write characters to a file
Now let us see how to write a string to
a file
For that we have the fputs function
It has two arguments : the string to be written and
the file pointer
Let us see an example programme
First we create and open a file file.txt
Now we create a string of size 10
Now we call the function fputs by passing the string
Hello and file pointer fw. So hello and space
is written to the buffer
And now we ask the user to enter the name
Suppose user enters the name Alan so it is scanned
and stored to str
And now we call the function fputs by passing string
name and file pointer. The current buffer pointer points
the next position after space so the string is written
to the buffer
So now "Hello Alan"
is in the buffer
So now Hello Alan is in the buffer and
is not written to the file yet
So we close the file and now the data is
written to file and buffer is removed. At the end
End of File or EoF
is added in the file
Finally the new file looks like this
So that is how we write data to a file.
to write characters, use the function fputc and
to write a string use the function fputs
In the coming videos
We will discuss more about file operations
So that's all and thank you for watching this video